I will come back on this video here.
We are going to be learning of our sessions now just to give you an idea.
Sessions are really a way to get users information.
Now let me compare the two with let me compared with cookies.
You see cookies save information.
We set a cookie in the user's browser right.
And we will set some information there will have actually that limit the amount of information that
we can set in the browser.
But the idea is that we Sesamum information and when the user comes back to our application we pool
that information and process it right.
Well sessions work very similar to that.
Now what we do is we create a file right by just starting a function.
I'm going to show you the function.
We create a file in our server to say the users information and then when the user comes in to that
specific page or application we set a cookie in their browser without reference to the file that we
have on the server.
So that way they use this information is going to be saved in our server so we can save a lot of information.
Instead with cookies we can just save a little bit of information because we are saving that information
in the user's browsers not in our server.
So we have more control over storage.
But anyway let me show you exactly how sessions work.
Let's go ahead and open our coeditor let's do a save as on this blog that BHB and this call is Section
1 right.
So we have it called Session 1 here.
Now the way we start a session right the way we meet we tell you know BHB OK let's let's go ahead and
start doing some things.
Let's start opening making files and doing all this.
All right so we create a session start.
And this is how we started up right here.
Now this is going to tell it's going to go to the browser and make a file.
So when they use it comes here on this page here and then we're going to open it right here is going
to open right now.
Boom that station that is already created and the cookie is set in this browser already.
I'm going to show it to you right now.
So let's go to.
I'm using Chrome by the way.
Let's go to history.
Actually now history I'm sorry.
Now history.
Let's go to settings.
Let's go to show advance settings.
Let's go to content and our cookie site data.
All right.
So you see this locavores this is us and then we click here we got a cookie.
You see that.
And then this cookie has a reference to a session we click on it and this content right here this roll
right here is the reference that we need.
So when.
Right now right this is the reference to the file that we have in the server and we can start putting
data in there.
And then every time the user comes in this case is us every time we come to this page we can reference
that found the server and pull information from there.
All right so now that this is created what I want to do is I want to set some values here and these
values that I'm going to set I'm going to save in this session.
I'm going to carry over to another page.
This is what sessions are go for.
If you want to carry values to another page and you want to say you don't want to personalize an application
for example and maybe give the user a message on.
I don't know the thank you page and say Listen thank you for coming in or whatever.
You can use sessions to keep track of that information all over your application.
Well now let's go ahead and do this.
We can also use cookies.
But like I said sessions you can save a lot more data.
Now you really does have disadvantages and advantages but we're not going to go into details right now.
First let's go ahead and create let's create some information in the session and this is how we do it.
Just very similar to the polls and they get.
I'm going to call these greeting reading.
I'm going to send a message to this here saying hello students.
Right.
That's it.
All right.
So now this session here is going to have this value you're going to have a value here.
We're going to have this associate of a rig greeting here in the valley is going to be hello student.
All right.
Now let's make another page let's make a second page.
And I'm going to do a Save As and call the session to BHB.
I'm going to save it.
All right.
And then hear what I'm going to do.
School here.
Of course I get a narrow here.
Well let's go to the first one.
It's actually Section 1
and they see the array one section to here.
I want to take this off.
There we go.
And here.
On go into doing the session two is echoing the information that we're going to said on the first session
one.
So let's go to Section 1 and let's find the right here.
All right.
Now another thing that I want you to keep in mind that this session started needs to be on every page
that you're going to be using sessions on always.
All right.
Because you need to actually tell BHB that you will be using sessions.
Right.
So make sure that this is started always.
So let's go to the first page here I'm going to click enter.
I have a mistake here somewhere.
Since it's on it's practice session the variable in line 3.
Let's make it let's find out what the mistake is here.
There is no mistake.
As a matter of fact is a mistake right here.
We need to put a semicolon there right.
Don't forget that.
All right so now we are on a session one right now if we go.
This session has been this value has been put in there already.
All right so keep that in mind.
We have this in an associate of array already available and we're going to be echoing this stuff here
out.
So let's go to the second page now and the message should be there we click enter.
And of course we need to fix that error or there's a semicolon.
I'm sorry about that guys.
There we go see that.
So that message was transferred over to the right.
So if I come here and I change the message go to the first one here and I say hello students.
This is awesome.
All right.
So I'm just going to refresh this page.
That message is already said again.
And if I go to the second page it gets carry over as you can see here.
You can use this with forms.
I mean whatever you want when you submit up information to a database and you want to display a error
or something like that.
You can use this.
This is very useful but anyway I don't want to make this video longer than what it needs to be done.
This is something very simple and I think you get the idea about using sessions is super easy.
You can set any type of value you want.
And you can keep track of users across you application.
Anyway thank you so much for watching this video.
Hopefully that will help you all understand sessions and I'll see you in the next lecture